# Introduction

Hi! My name is Joël De Leon Mayeu and I am a physicist specialising in theoretical topological condensed matter physics. I earned my bachelor's degree in physics at the University of Montreal and I am currently a 1st year physics MSc student at McGill university under the supervision of [Pr. Tami Pereg-Barnea](https://pbtami.wixsite.com/mysite-1). 


My hobbies include improv comedy, cooking, cycling and board games of all kinds. I've also been a boy scout, hiker and outdoors camper for the last 16 years. 


I greatly value community engagement, and I've made an effort during my studies to be involved in my environment. I had the privilege of being elected as the Student Life Coordinator for the Physics Students' Association (PHYSUM) for the 2021-2022 term, Coordinator of volunteers for the student café La Planck for the 2022-2023 term, and treasurer for that same café for the 2023-2024 term. I was also the webmaster and a member of the organizing committee of the Canadian Conference for Undergraduate Women In Physics (CCUWIP), which took place in January 2024 at both UdeM and McGill University.


I've had the chance of working as a research intern twice during my undergraduate years. My first research project, under the supervision of Pr. Philippe St-Jean at UdeM, was on the topics of photonics and quantum phase transitions. More specifically, the goal was to simulate the behavior of electron states in topological materials by examining the behavior of photonic states that moved in a "frequency dimension" generated by optical fiber loops. My second research project, under the supervision of Pr. Richard MacKenzie at UdeM, allowed me to continue working on topological phase transitions by studying in detail the effects of the inclusion of a soliton in an SSH chain, a model for unidimensional materials. These projects allowed me to discover that I was very interested in theoretical condensed matter research. More specifically, I aspire to work on topological quantum phases of matter. I've also had the chance of working as a teaching assistant three times during my undergraduate years.


Currently, my goal is to continue my academic journey with a master's degree in physics to further develop my research skills and, ultimately, to teach physics at a higher education institution. Having enjoyed my numerous teaching assistant and tutoring experiences, I would like to eventually pursue a doctorate's degree to teach and conduct research at the university level.


# Other Interests

- [Cooking](./cooking.md)
- Cycling
- [Improvisation](./improv.md)
- Magic the Gathering and other
 board games


# CV

<!-- How to embed a PDF -->
<iframe width="100%" height="600" src="./media/Resume___CV___Joël_De_Leon_Mayeu.pdf">